In this video I'll demonstrate how to clone a virtual machine.
So I'm going to start by simply grabbing this app VM and right clicking it and under the app VM I have
the option to clone this virtual machine either to a template or to another virtual machine.
So I'm going to clone it to another virtual machine.
I'm going to call it a wreck.
The
quote the name of my virtual machine.
I'll go ahead and hit next.
And I'm going to pick an ESX host for this clone to run on it.
Next one more time I'll choose the virtual desk format which is going to be thin provision.
In this case I'm going to put up my big data store I'll hit next.
And at this point I'm going to choose a couple options here or I'm going to choose to customize the
guest operating system.
I'm going to choose to customize the virtual machines hardware and I'm going to choose the power on
this VM after it's done being created.
So to customize the guest operating system I can now choose one of my customisations specs.
And if you watched my video on templates you saw me create this customization spec all of the Windows
settings that need to be unique like Exidy like the computer name like the IP address they're all specified
within this customisation spec.
So when I clone this VM all of its settings are going to be scrubbed within windows and made unique
and the virtual machine will actually automatically join the domain as well.
The new virtual machine.
Well as long as my customization spec has those domain credentials.
And then they can change the virtual hardware right on my clone.
So if I want my clone to have more memory or if I want my clone to have to sleep use instead of one
and maybe I want to give it less virtual disk space I can change all these options.
Actually I can't give it less virtual desk space and give it more.
I can't make the virtual disks smaller.
And at that point I can just hit next and I'm ready to complete.
And if I hit finish we can monitor the progress and recent tasks actually have some other cloning operations
going on right now as well.
But here you can see the cloning operations that have just kicked off.
And so I'm going to have another virtual machine call the rick Creasey app clone that's exactly the
same as app except for it's going to go through the windows customization process.
So it will have a unique ID and unique computer name and an all that good stuff.